---

title: OSC Makes Public Findings on VA Failure to Secure Firearms Used in Kansas Killings
date: 2025-02-28
---
Disclosure of Wrongdoing

OSC alerted the President that management at a VA Police Dept in Kansas failed to remove access to agency firearms from an officer following the issuance of a protective order, resulting in tragedy.

Page Content

The U.S. Office of Special Counsel (OSC) today [alerted](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https://osc.gov/Documents/Public%2520Files/FY25/DI-24-000869/OSC%2520File%2520No%2520DI-24-000869%2520Letter%2520to%2520the%2520President_Redacted.pdf&data=05%7c02%7c%7c963502cbaf0949171f4d08dd5818ce19%7c39dcbe17c0694d7c8ad7efbbedb5fc55%7c0%7c0%7c638763585747841359%7cUnknown%7cTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7c0%7c%7c%7c&sdata=BAYWznuY%2BS2yGu%2B%2BU0pqgjZLMCDCdLMcX8icTDKgSmk%3D&reserved=0) the President and Congress that management at a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Police Department in Eastern Kansas failed to remove access to agency firearms from officer Jerel McGeachy following the issuance of a protective order, resulting in tragedy. The [findings](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https://osc.gov/Documents/Public%2520Files/FY25/DI-24-000869/OSC%2520File%2520No.%252024-000869%2520Agency%2520Report_Redacted.pdf&data=05%7c02%7c%7c963502cbaf0949171f4d08dd5818ce19%7c39dcbe17c0694d7c8ad7efbbedb5fc55%7c0%7c0%7c638763585747853592%7cUnknown%7cTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7c0%7c%7c%7c&sdata=VNZU%2BOi6rZaa1AhV8aYQeXzIWTIGfCfBLfBirHT/k58%3D&reserved=0) were issued to OSC by the VA in response to OSC's transmittal of whistleblower allegations of wrongdoing at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center (Eisenhower VAMC) in Leavenworth, Kansas.

The whistleblower, a VA police officer, [alleged](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https://osc.gov/Documents/Public%2520Files/FY25/DI-24-000869/OSC%2520File%2520No.%2520DI-24-000869%25201213%28c%29%2520Referral%2520Part%2520I_Redacted.pdf&data=05%7c02%7c%7c963502cbaf0949171f4d08dd5818ce19%7c39dcbe17c0694d7c8ad7efbbedb5fc55%7c0%7c0%7c638763585747866445%7cUnknown%7cTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7c0%7c%7c%7c&sdata=bz2wpd/F/1glB0Oc1xfOv%2Bg8ixFfV8BuobmnOm9koi8%3D&reserved=0) that management at the Eisenhower VA Police Department failed to remove Mr. McGeachy's access to firearms in response to a March 2024 protective order, issued by the Platte County, Missouri Circuit Court, that prohibited him from possessing firearms. Following receipt of the protective order, officers confiscated Mr. McGeachy's badge and credentials but failed to take back his keys or building access card. With the keys and card, Mr. McGeachy was able to unlock the VA armory door and access the police department's weapons. The police department was advised on April 1, 2024, that Mr. McGeachy had shot and killed his wife and twelve-year-old child, and committed suicide, and that a weapon was missing from the VA armory. OSC referred the matter to the VA and investigators concluded that the Eisenhower VAMC Chief and Deputy Chief of Police failed to follow established procedures.

“I join the Kansas City community in mourning the tragic deaths of Domonique McGeachy and her son Jerel," said Special Counsel Hampton Dellinger. “It is heartbreaking to read of twelve-year-old Jerel's passion and promise, and to think that he and his mother could still be with us if a government agency had followed established safety procedures. Simply heartbreaking."

Other security deficiencies were also identified. Following the investigation, the physical security deficiencies were corrected immediately and the VA outlined additional safety measures for staff to take when a VA police officer's arrest and weapons authority is suspended.

In February 2025, OSC received an update on the status of disciplinary action taken against VA employees. In its response, the VA informed OSC that disciplinary action was taken, or is pending, against the Eisenhower VAMC Chief of Police, Deputy Chief, and a Lieutenant, all of whom are no longer in police service.

\*\*\*​