---
cms_editable: true
title: 2302(c) Certification Program
permalink: false
---

​**Background​​​​​**

Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 2302(c), agency heads are required to ensure, in consultation with the Special Counsel and the Inspector General of the agency, that employees of the agency are informed of the rights and remedies available to them under the Civil Service Reform Act (CSRA), the Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA), the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act (WP​​​​​EA), and related laws. Due to the passage of the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 and the Office of Special Counsel’s Reauthorization Act of 2017, OSC’s Certification Program has undergone several changes. Most importantly, we want to convey that if your agency follows the instructions for certification, e.g., submitting the annual checklist and providing the updated handouts to employees, the agency will have satisfied the education requirements of the amended 5 U.S.C. 2302(c).​

**Certification Program Overview​​​​​​**

OSC’s 2302(c) Certification Program allows federal agencies to meet the statutory obligation to inform their workforces about the rights and remedies available to them under the CSRA, the WPA, the WPEA, and satisfy the requirements of the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 and the NDAA.

The program consists of four steps: (1) registration, (2​) completion of the five requirements, (3) submission of annual certification checklist, and (4) application for certification or recertification every three years.

_STEP 1_: Start the certification process by submitting the [registration form](/~assets/docs/registration-form-v2025.pdf)​​.

_STEP 2_: Complete the following five certification requirements:

1.  Place informational posters at agency facilities (new posters in 2024)
2.  Provide information about the 14 PPPs and whistleblower disclosures to new employees as part of the orientation process and *no later than 180 days* after the date the new employee begins performing service as an employee. 
3.  Provide information to current ​employees about the 14 PPPs and whistleblower disclosures on annual ​basis
4.  Train supervisors, in consultation with OSC, on the 14 PPPs and ​whistleblower protection provisions of Title 5. There are two required trainings—triennial training on the fourteen (14) PPPs and annual training on how to address disclosures of wrongdoing and respond to complaints of retaliation. \[**NOTE**: Agencies _**must**_ obtain prior approval from OSC before disseminating forms or training materials created by an agency or outside entity to satisfy the training requirements of the Certification Program.​\]
5.  Display a link to OSC’s website on the agency’s website and intranet.

_STEP 3_: Request certification by submitting the [compliance form](/~assets/docs/compliance-form-v2025.pdf)​​​​​​​​ and supporting documentation. If all requirements have been met, OSC will issue the agency’​s certification. Every three years, agencies will need to request recertification by submitting a compliance form.

_STEP 4_: Once you are certified, maintain certification by submitting an [Annual Certification Checklist](/~assets/docs/annual-certification-checklist-v2025.pdf)​ to confirm ongoing compliance. 

For more information on the five certification requirements, see the Certification Process page. For information specific to government corporations, see the Certification for Government Corporations page. Contact us at [certification@osc.gov](mailto:certification@osc.gov). ​​​​​

## Contact Information

​OSC's certification program can be reached via email at certification@osc.gov.
